# LitLab.stanford.edu guide

## How the site works

In the big picture, all the site content -- project descriptions, Techne posts, pamphlets, information about Lab members -- exists as a series of text files, mostly using [markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) syntax, which get processed through a set of templates to create the website. To update the site contents, you create new markdown files or update existing ones in the *src* directory; you can also add images or other files and reference them in your Markdown files.

The one exception is the information about Lab members, which is managed in a JSON file at *src/data/LabPeople.json*.

We'll go through the site one content type at a time.


## Techne

Techne posts live in *src/techne*. Their filenames should follow the following convention: `yyyy-mm-dd-post-title-separated-by-hyphens.md`. At the top of each Techne post markdown file, there's *frontmatter* -- basically, metadata. The frontmatter section begins and ends with three hyphens, and you should fill in the values for each of the fields. Here's an example:

    ---
	permalink: '/techne/example-post/'
    title: "Techne's Example Post"
    authors: [efredner, malgeehewitt]
    projects: [typicality]
    date: 2020-07-18
    teaser: |
      A sentence or two goes here, and you don't have to worry about single or double quotes.
	---

Text that isn't part of a list should be surrounded by either single or double quotes; if the text includes an apostrophe (like in the example title here), use double quotes, and vice-versa.

Lists should be in square brackets, and you don't have to put quotes around list items. The two lists associated with Techne posts are *authors* and *projects*. To reference a Lab member or collaborator, use the first letter of their first name and their full last name, all lower-case. (If you're not sure look at the *src/data/LabPeople.json* file, which is ordered alphabetically by last name.)

To reference one or more projects, use the project key (unique identifier). The key is the final part of the project URL, and is also the name of the project's markdown file in the *src/projects* directory.

## Projects & Pamphlets
All projects live in *src/projects*, and pamphlets are generated by metadata in the frontmatter of projects with an associated pamphlet. Projects that should no longer be on the Lab's list of current projects are assigned `status: archive`, which will put them on an archive page.

Project pages can have extensive prose in the content area below the frontmatter, or just a little metadata in the frontmatter. At a minimum, each project should have a title, a key, information about the project team, and one square image (400px x 400px square, to be put in *src/assets/images*). 

If the project has the pamphlet, all the metadata in the pamphlet section should be filled out.

Here's an example of frontmatter for an archived project with a pamphlet:

    ---
    key: 'example-with-pamphlet'
    permalink: /projects/example-with-pamphlet/
    title: "Example Project with a Pamphlet"
    image: '/assets/images/example-with-pamphlet.jpg'
    members: [malgeehe, adroge, efredner, rheuser, amanshel, nnomura]
	collaborators: [jporter, hwalser]
	date_updated: 2023-01-01
	start_date: 2018-09-01
	end_date: 2023-01-01
    status: 'archive'
    shortdesc: "Example with pamphlet short description here."
    longdesc: "Example with pamphlet long description here. Note how it is longer than the short description."
    pamphlet:
      p_title: "Pamphlet Example"
      p_image: "/assets/images/p99.png"
      p_pdf: "https://litlab.stanford.edu/LiteraryLabPamphlet99.pdf"
      p_pubdate: 2019-09-01
      p_prose: "This pamphlet explores the phenomenon of examples in literary history."
---
